.\" Process this file with
.\" nroff -e -mandoc foo.1
.\"
.TH yangcli-pro 1 "March 31, 3013" Linux "yangcli-pro 13.04"
.SH NAME
yangcli-pro \- YANG-based NETCONF-over-SSH client application

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf

   yangcli-pro [parameter=value...]

   yangcli-pro --help [brief | normal | full]

   yangcli-pro --version


.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B yangcli-pro
is a Command Line Interface for the NETCONF protocol.
It uses the YANG data modeling language to manage
the NETCONF content layer.
This version of yangcli-pro supports the YANG data modeling language
defined in \fBRFC 6020\fP.

.nf

    Normal Mode:
       An interactive CLI shell with command line history.
    
    Autostart-mode:
       If the 'server' parameter is present, then yangcli-pro will
        attempt to connect to that server upon startup.  If the
       'user' and 'password' parameters are also present, then
       the user will not be prompted before the connection
       is attempted.  This parameter will be processed first,
       if script-mode or batch-mode is used.
    
    Script-mode:
       If the 'run-script' or 'run-command' parameter is present,
       then the specified script or command will be run automatically
       upon startup.

    Batch-mode:
       If the 'batch-mode' parameter is present, then either the
       'run-script' or 'run-command' parameter will be invoked, if
       present, and then the program will exit.
.fi
.SH USAGE
Parameters can be entered in any order, and have the form:

   \fB[start] name [separator [value]]\fP

where:

    \fBstart\fP == 0, 1, or 2 dashes (foo, -foo, --foo)

    \fBname\fP == parameter name
.nf

         Parameter name completion will be attempted 
         if a partial name is entered.

.fi
    \fBseparator\fP == whitespace or equals sign (foo=bar, foo bar)

    \fBvalue\fP == string value for the parameter.
.nf

         Strings with whitespace need to be double quoted 
         (--foo="some string")

.fi
Some examples of valid command line parameters:
.nf

   foo=3
   -foo=3
   --foo=3
   foo 3
   foo=fred
   --foo "fred flintstone"
.fi

Partial parameter names can be entered if they are unique.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP --\fBaliases-file\fP[=filespec]
Specifies the yangcli-pro command aliases file to use.
The default is ~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_aliases.
.IP --\fBalt-names\fP=boolean
Altername name match mode to use for UrlPath name searches.
The default is true (allow matches on alt-name extension).
.IP --\fBautoaliases\fP=boolean
Controls whether the yangcli-pro command aliases will
be saved at exit and loaded at startup.
If true, the 'aliases-file' parameter will be used if it is set,
or else the default aliases file will be used
(~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_aliases), for loading
and saving the yangcli-pro command aliases.
If false, the yangcli-pro command aliases will only be stored
and loaded manually with the aliases command.
The default is true.
.IP --\fBautocomp\fP=boolean
Controls whether partial keywords will be 
checked for interactive or script commands.
If true (the default), the first match for a partial keyword
will be used if no definition is found for
a command name or parameter name.
If false, then exact command and parameter name values
must be given.
.IP --\fBautoconfig\fP=boolean
Controls whether the running configuration
will be retrieved automatically for active sessions.
By default, the running config will be retrieved
and maintained so it can be compared and used for
command tab completion.
.IP --\fBautohistory\fP=boolean
Controls whether the command line history buffer will
be saved at exit and loaded at startup.
If true, the default history file will be used
(~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_history) for loading
and saving the history buffer.  This is the default value.
If false, the history buffer will only be stored
and loaded manually with the history command.
.IP --\fBautoload\fP=boolean
Controls whether any YANG content modules
will be automatically loaded upon startup or
upon session startup with a server. This is the
default value.  If false, the 'load-module' command
must be used to explicitly load all the desired 
definition modules.
.IP --\fBautonotif\fP=boolean
Controls whether notifications will automatically
be enabled when a session starts.
By default, notifications will be enabled if the
server supports the :notifications and :interleave
capabilities. A <create-subscription> operation will
be performed and notification events for the sesion
will be monitored.
.IP --\fBautosessions\fP=boolean
Controls whether the saved sessions will be loaded
into memory at startup and saved to file at exit.
If true, the default session-cfg file will be used
(~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_sessions.conf) for loading
and saving the configured sessions in memory.
If false, the configured sessions will only be stored
and loaded manually with the sessions-cfg command.
.IP --\fBautotest\fP=boolean
Controls whether the saved test suites will be loaded
into memory at startup and saved to file at exit.
If true, the default test-suite-cfg file will be used
(~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_tests.conf) for loading
and saving the configured test-suites in memory.
If false, the configured test-suites will only be stored
and loaded manually with the test-suite command.
.IP --\fBautouservars\fP=boolean
Controls whether the yangcli-pro user variables will
be saved at exit and loaded at startup.
If true, the 'uservars-file' parameter will be used if set,
or else the default user variables file will be used
(~/.yumapro/yangcli_pro_uservars.xml), for loading
and saving the yangcli-pro user variables.
If false, the yangcli-pro user variables will only be stored
and loaded manually with the uservars command.
The default is true.
.IP --\fBbad-data\fP=enum
Specifies how invalid user input from the CLI
will be handled when filling PDUs for remote
operations.
.nf

   enum values:
      ignore
         Silently accept invalid PDU and data model 
         parameters.  Intended for advanced server
         testing mode only.
      warn
         Warn, but accept invalid PDU and data model 
         parameters.
      check
         Prompt the user to keep the invalid value
         or re-enter the value.
      error
         Prompt the user to re-enter the invalid value.
.fi  
.IP --\fBbatch-mode\fP
If present, the interactive CLI will not be used.
A script should be provided with the 'run-script'
parameter, or a command provided with the 'run-command'
parameter, or else the program will simply exit.
If the auto-connect mode is enabled, then this will mode
simply test if a NETCONF session can be established,
then exit.
.IP --\fBconfig\fP=filespec
The name of the configuration file to use.
The default config file is
.I /etc/yumapro/yangcli-pro.conf
will be not be checked if this parameter is present.
.IP --\fBno-config\fP
If present, then no configuration file will be loaded,
even if the default configuration file is present.
.IP --\fBconfig-edit-mode\fP=enum
Controls how edits are applied during config mode.
default is 'level' mode.
.nf
   enum values:
     line
       Automatically apply a config mode edit after
       each line
     level
       Automatically apply a config mode edit when
       the current level is exited.
     manual
       Only apply a config mode edit manually with
       the 'apply' command.
.fi
.IP --\fBdatapath\fP=list
Internal file search path for configuration data files.
Overrides the YUMAPRO_DATAPATH environment variable.
.IP --\fBdefault-module\fP=string
Default module name string to use before 'netconf' 
and 'yangcli-pro' are tried.  The module prefix may need to be
used for other modules.
.IP --\fBdeviation\fP=string
 This parameter identifies a YANG module that
should only be checked for deviation statements
for external modules.  These will be collected
and applied to the real module(s) being processed.
       
Deviations are applied as patches to the target module.
Since they are not identified in the target module at
all (ala imports), they have to be specified
explicitly, so they will be correctly processed.
Zero or more instances of this parameter are allowed.
.IP --\fBdisplay-mode\fP=enum
Controls how values are displayed during output
to STDOUT or a log file.
.nf
    enum values:
       plain
          Plain identifier without any prefix format.
       prefix
          Plain text with XML prefix added format.
       module
          Plain text with module name as prefix added format.
       xml
          XML format.
       xml-nons
          XML format, but without any namespace (xmlns) attributes.
       json
          JSON format.

.fi
.IP --\fBecho-notif-loglevel\fP=log-level
Specifies the log-level value that must be active before
notifications will be echoed to the log or STDOUT.
This parameter has no affect if 'echo-notifs' is false.
The $$echo-notif-loglevel system variable is derived from
this parameter. The default is 'debug'.
.IP --\fBecho-notifs\fP=boolean
Allow notifications to be echoed to the log or STDOUT
If 'true', <notification> messages will be output
to the log, if log-level is set to the value
specified by the echo-notif-loglevel or higher.
      
If 'false', <notifications> messages will not be
output to the log.
     
The $$echo-notifs system variable is derived from
this parameter. The default is 'true'.
.IP --\fBecho-replies\fP=boolean
Allow RPC replies to be echoes to the log or STDOUT.

If true, <rpc-reply> messages containing data
will be output to the log, if log-level is  'info' or higher.
If false, <rpc-reply> messages containing data
will not be output to the log, regardless of
the value of log-level.
.IP --\fBfeature-disable\fP=module:feature
Identifies a feature which should be considered disabled.
Zero or more entries are allowed.
.IP --\fBfeature-enable-default\fP=boolean
If true (the default), then features will be enabled by default.
If false, then features will be disabled by default.
.IP --\fBfeature-enable\fP=module:feature
Identifies a feature which should be considered enabled.
Zero or more entries are allowed.
.IP --\fBfixorder\fP=boolean
Controls whether PDU parameters will be
automatically sent to the server in the
correct order.  
If true, then canonical order will be used.
This is the default value.
If false, the specified order will be used. 

.IP --\fBforce-target\fP=enum
Controls whether the candidate or running
configuration datastore will be used as
the default edit target, when both are supported
by the server.
.nf
      enum values:
        candidate
          Force default edit target to be candidate.
        running
          Force default edit target to be running.
.fi
.IP --\fBhelp\fP
Print this help text and exit.
The help-mode choice (--brief, --normal, or --full) may also be present
to control the amount of help text printed.
.IP --\fBhome\fP=dirspec
Directory specification for the home directory
to use instead of HOME.
.IP --\fBindent\fP=number
Number of spaces to indent (0..9) in formatted output.
The default is 2 spaces.
.IP --\fBlog\fP=filespec
Filespec for the log file to use instead of STDOUT.
If this string begins with a '~' character,
then a username is expected to follow or
a directory separator character.  If it begins
with a '$' character, then an environment variable
name is expected to follow.
.IP --\fBlog-append\fP
If present, the log will be appended not over-written.
If not, the log will be over-written.
Only meaningful if the \fBlog\fP parameter is
also present.
.IP --\fBlog-backtrace\fP=number
If present, log output will include traceback
detail for each log message, subject to further
filtering by --log-backtrace-level and/or
log-backtrace-stream qualifiers
.IP --\fBlog-backtrace-detail\fP
If present in conjunction with --log-backtrace
log messages will include 'detailed' backtrace
information (if supported by the compiler).
.IP --\fBlog-backtrace-level\fP=bits
Indicates for which debug level(s) backtrace
info will be generated. Param string is an XSD
list: a double quoted series of whitespace
separated (level) strings like error warn debug
.IP --\fBlog-backtrace-stream\fP=bits
Indicates in which log stream(s) backtrace info
will be included. Param string is an XSD list:
a double quoted series of whitespace separated
(log stream) strings like logfile syslog
.IP --\fBlog-header\fP=string
Indicates in which log stream(s) backtrace info
will be included. Param string is an XSD list:
a double quoted series of whitespace separated
(log stream) strings like logfile syslog
.IP --\fBlog-level\fP=enum
Sets the debug logging level for the program.
.nf
      enum values:
        off
        error
        warn
        info
        debug
        debug2
        debug3
        debug4
.fi
.IP --\fBlog-mirroring\fP
Duplicate log messages via STDOUT or log file when log-syslog
is configured
.IP --\fBlog-stderr\fP
Output log-level error messages via STDERR rather than STDOUT
.IP --\fBlog-suppress-ctrl\fP
If present, strip certain control characters from
output in order to modify log formatting.
.IP --\fBlog-syslog\fP
If present, direct log messages to syslog instead of STDOUT or log filespec.
.IP --\fBlog-vendor\fP
If present, log messages will be directed to a
customer-written and registered callback function.
This functionality is defined by an API specified in
the YumaWorks API Reference Manual. In the absence of
a registered callback, this parameter will direct
logging messages to syslog in order to facilitate
standalone testing.
.IP --\fBmatch-names\fP=enum
Match mode to use for UrlPath name searches.
.nf
      enum values:
        exact
          The name must exactly match the node name
          for all characters in both name strings.
        exact-nocase
          The name must match the node name
          for all characters in both name strings.
          Strings are not case-sensitive.
        one
          The name must exactly match the first N
          characters of just one node name, which
          must be the only partial name match found.
        one-nocase
          The name must exactly match the first N
          characters of just one node name, which
          must be the only partial name match found.
          Strings are not case-sensitive.
        first
          The name must exactly match the first N
          characters of any node name. The first one
          found will be used.
        first-nocase
          The name must exactly match the first N
          characters of any node name. The first one
          found will be used. Strings are not
          case-sensitive.
.fi
.IP --\fBmessage-indent\fP=number
The number of spaces to indent for each level of
output in a protocol message, e.g. NETCONF request.
The value zero means no indent, just line feeds.
The value -1 means no indent and no line feeds either.
(range -1 .. 9) [d:-1]
.IP --\fBmodpath\fP=list
Directory search path for YANG and YIN files.
Overrides the YUMAPRO_MODPATH environment variable.
.IP --\fBmodule\fP=string
YANG or YIN source module name to load upon startup.
If this string represents a filespec, 
ending with the \fB.yang\fP or \fB.yin\fP extension,
then only that file location will be checked.

If this string represents a module name, then
the module search path will be checked for
a file the \fB.yang\fP or \fB.yin\fP extension.

If this string begins with a '~' character,
then a username is expected to follow or
a directory separator character.  If it begins
with a '$' character, then an environment variable
name is expected to follow.
.nf

      ~/some/path ==> <my-home-dir>/some/path

      ~fred/some/path ==> <fred-home-dir>/some/path

      $workdir/some/path ==> <workdir-env-var>/some/path
.fi
.IP --\fBncport\fP=number
The NETCONF port number to use for starting sessions.
If not present, then port 830, followed by port 22, will be tried.
.IP --\fBpassword\fP=string
User password to use for NETCONF sessions.
If none, then user will be prompted before connecting.
.IP --\fBprivate-key\fP=string
Contains the file path specification
for the file containing the client-side private key.
If both 'public-key' and 'private-key' files are
present, the client will attempt to connect
to the server using these keys.  If this fails,
or not done, then password authentication will
be attempted.
.IP --\fBprotocols\fP=bits
Specifies which protocol versions the program or session
will attempt to use. Empty set is not allowed.
Default is to enable all protocols.
.nf
      bit values:
        netconf1.0
          RFC 4741 base:1.0
        netconf1.1
          RFC xxxx base:1.1
.fi
.IP --\fBpublic-key\fP=string
Contains the file path specification
for the file containing the client-side public key.
If both 'public-key' and 'private-key' files are
present, the client will attempt to connect
to the server using these keys.  If this fails,
or not done, then password authentication will
be attempted.
.IP --\fBprompt-type\fP=enum
Selects the type of prompt string that will be used
in interactive mode. The default is 'normal'.
.nf
      enum values:
        brief(0)
        normal(1)
        full(2)
.fi

.IP --\fBrun-command\fP=string
The specified command will be invoked upon startup.
If the auto-connect parameters are provided, then
a session will be established before running the
command.
.IP --\fBrun-script\fP=string
The specified script will be invoked upon startup.
If the auto-connect parameters are provided, then
a session will be established before running the
script.  If a quoted string is used, then any parameters
after the script name will be passed to the script.
.IP --\fBrunpath\fP=list
Internal file search path for script files.
Overrides the YUMAPRO_RUNPATH environment variable.
.IP --\fBserver\fP=string
IP address or DNS name of the NETCONF server target to
use for the auto-startup mode, or as the default value
when starting a new session.
.IP --\fBsubdirs\fP=boolean
If false, the file search paths for modules, scripts, and data
files will not include sub-directories if they exist in the
specified path.
      
If true, then these file search paths will include
sub-directories, if present.  Any directory name beginning
with a dot (\fB.\fP) character, or named \fBCVS\fP, will be ignored.
This is the default mode.
.IP --\fBtest-suite-file\fP=filespec
Specifies the yangcli-pro test suite config file to use.
The default is ~/.yumapro/yangcli_pro_tests.conf
.IP --\fBtime-rpcs\fP=boolean
Measure the round-trip time of each <rpc> request and
<rpc-reply> at the session level.
Echo the elapsed time value to screen if in
interactive mode, as well as the log if the
log is a file instead of stdout.
.IP --\fBtime-rpcs-stats\fP=boolean
 Save rpc statistics to the default statistics file
if the time-rpcs variable is also true.
The $$time-rpcs-stats system variable is derived
from this parameter.
.IP --\fBtime-rpcs-stats-file\fP=filespec
 The default filename to use for saving RPC timing statistics.
if the time-rpcs and time-rpc-stats variables are true.
The $$time-rpcs-stats-file system variable is derived
from this parameter.
.IP --\fBtimeout\fP=number
The number of seconds to wait for a response
from the server before declaring a timeout.
Zero means do not timeout at all.
.IP --\fBtransport\fP=enum
Identifies the transport protocol that should be used.
This is the default that will be used or the value used
in auto-connect mode.  The value can also be provided
when invoking the 'connect' command.
.nf
      enum values:
        ssh
          NETCONF over SSH.
          RFC 4742;  RFC 6242
        tcp
          NETCONF over TCP.
          If this enum is selected, then the default --ncport
          value is set to 2023, and the --protocols value
          is set to netconf1.0.  The --password value will
          be ignored.
.fi
.IP --\fBuse-xmlheader\fP=
Specifies how file result variables will be written
for XML files.  Controls whether the XML preamble
header will be written or not.
.IP --\fBuser\fP=string
User name to use for NETCONF sessions.
This value will be used in auto-startup mode,
or as the default value when starting a new
session.
.IP --\fBuservars-file\fP=filespec
Specifies the yangcli-pro user variables file to use.
The default is ~/.yumapro/yangcli_pro_uservars.xml.
.IP --\fBversion\fP
Print the program version string and exit.
.IP --\fBwarn-idlen\fP=number
 Control whether identifier length warnings will be
generated.  The value zero disables all identifier
length checking.  If non-zero, then a warning will
be generated if an identifier is defined which 
has a length is greater than this amount.
range: 0 | 8 .. 1023.
The default value is 64.
.IP --\fBwarn-linelen\fP=number
Control whether line length warnings will be
generated.  The value zero disables all line length
checking.  If non-zero, then a warning will
be generated if the line length is greater than
this amount.  Tab characters are counted as 8 spaces.
range: 0 | 40 .. 4095.
The default value is 72.
.IP --\fBwarn-off\fP=number
Control whether the specified warning number will be
generated and counted in the warning total for the
module being parsed.
range: 400 .. 899.
This parameter may be entered zero or more times.
.IP --\fBwildcard-keys\fP=boolean
Set to 'true' if UrlPath targets for GET operations
are allowed to replace key values with the dash '-'
character to indicate that all instances of that key
are requested.
     
Set to false to treat the '-' character as a plain
character if entered as a key value in a UrlPath string.
The default is 'false'.
.IP --\fByumapro-home\fP=string
Directory for the YumaPro project root to use.
If present, this directory location will
override the YUMAPRO_HOME environment variable,
if it is present.  If a zero-length string is
entered, then the YUMAPRO_HOME environment variable
will be ignored.

.SH SEARCH PATH
When a module name is entered as input, or when a
module or submodule name is specified in an import or include
statement within the file, the following search algorithm
is used to find the file:
.nf    

  1) file is in the current directory
  2) YUMAPRO_MODPATH environment var (or set by modpath parameter)
  3) $HOME/modules directory
  4) $YUMAPRO_HOME/modules directory
  5) $YUMAPRO_INSTALL/modules directory OR
     default install module location, '/usr/share/yumapro/modules'

.fi
By default, the entire directory tree for all locations
(except step 1) will be searched, not just the specified
directory.  The \fBsubdirs\fP parameter can be used to
prevent sub-directories from being searched.
    
Any directory name beginning with a dot character (\fB.\fP)
will be skipped.  Also, any directory named \fBCVS\fP will
be skipped in directory searches.

.SH ERROR LOGGING
By default, warnings and errors are sent to STDOUT.
    
A log file can be specified instead with the \fBlog\fP' parameter.

Existing log files can be reused with the 'logappend'
parameter, otherwise log files are overwritten.
    
The logging level can be controlled with the \fBlog-level\fP
parameter.

The default log level is 'info'.  The
log-levels are additive:
.nf

     off:    suppress all errors (not recommended!)
             A program return code of '1' indicates some error.
     error:  print errors
     warn:   print warnings
     info:   print generally interesting trace info
     debug:  print general debugging trace info
     debug2: print verbose debugging trace info
     debug3: print very verbose debugging trace info
     debug4: print maximum debugging trace info

.fi

.SH ENVIRONMENT
The following optional environment variables can be used
to control module search behavior:
.IP \fBHOME\fP
The user's home directory  (e.g., /home/andy)
.IP \fBYUMAPRO_HOME\fP
The root of the user's Yuma work directory
(e.g., /home/andy/swdev/netconf)
.IP \fBYUMAPRO_INSTALL\fP
The root of the directory that yangdump
is installed on this system (default is, /usr/share/yumapro)
.IP \fBYUMAPRO_DATAPATH\fP
Colon-separated list of directories to
search for data files.
(e.g.: './workdir/data-files:/home/andy/test-data')
The \fBdatapath\fP parameter will override this
environment variable, if both are present.
.IP \fBYUMAPRO_MODPATH\fP
Colon-separated list of directories to
search for modules and submodules.
(e.g.: './workdir/modules:/home/andy/test-modules')
The \fBmodpath\fP parameter will override this
environment variable, if both are present.
.IP \fBYUMAPRO_RUNPATH\fP
Colon-separated list of directories to
search for script files.
(e.g.: './workdir/scripts:/home/andy/scripts')
The \fBrunpath\fP parameter will override this
environment variable, if both are present.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILES
.IP \fByangcli-pro.conf\fP
YANG config file
The default is: \fB/etc/yumapro/yangcli-pro.conf\fP
    
An ASCII configuration file format is supported to
store command line parameters. 

The \fBconfig\fP parameter
is used to specify a specific config file, otherwise
the default config file will be checked.
.nf    

   - A hash mark until EOLN is treated as a comment
   - All text is case-sensitive
   - Whitespace within a line is not significant
   - Whitespace to end a line is significant/
     Unless the line starts a multi-line string,
     an escaped EOLN (backslash EOLN) is needed
     to enter a leaf on multiple lines.
   - For parameters that define lists, the key components
     are listed just after the parameter name, without
     any name,  e.g.,
    
            interface eth0 {
              # name = eth0 is not listed inside the braces
              ifMtu 1500
              ifName mySystem
            }

.fi    
A config file can contain any number of parameter
sets for different programs. 

Each program must have its own section, identifies by its name:
.nf    

     # this is a comment
     yangcli-pro {
        log-level debug
        default-module yuma-interfaces
     }
    
.fi

.SH FILES
The following data files must be present in the module
search path in order for this program to function:
    
  * \fBYANG module library\fP
    default: /usr/share/yumapro/modules/

  * \fByangcli-pro command aliases\fP
    default: ~/.yumapro/.yangcli_pro_aliases
    CLI parameters: --autoaliases, --aliases-file
    See the 'aliases' and 'alias' command for details.
    The format of the aliases file is text.
    A comment is a line that begins with a '#' character,
    and will be ignored. Comments are not saved if the
    --autoaliases=true parameter value is used.
    Single or double quotes can be used.
.nf

    Example aliases file:
    ---------------------
    g=get
    gc=get-config
    gcnacm='sget-config --source=running /nacm'
    geteth0="xget /interfaces/interface[name='eth0']"

.fi
  * \fByangcli-pro user variables\fP
    default: ~/.yumapro/yangcli_pro_uservars.xml
    CLI parameters: --autouservars, --uservars-file
    See the 'uservars' command for details.
    The format of the uservars file is XML.
    Refer to the 'vars' container in yangcli-pro.yang
    for a definition of the XML contents.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
Internal diagnostics may generate the following
type of message if any bugs are detected at runtime:
.nf
  
    [E0]
         filename.c:linenum error-number (error-msg)

.fi
.SH AUTHOR
YumaWorks, Inc., <support at yumaworks dot com>

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR netconf-subsystem-pro (1)
.BR netconfd-pro (1)
.BR yangdiff-pro (1)
.BR yangdump-pro (1)
